Welcome to ForGe, a computer forensic test image generator.



------------Example case-----------------------------------------
If you have completed database initialisation (navigated once to 
http://localhost:8000/ui/init_db), there is an example case with
two trivial and one secret strategy preinstalled in the database. 
This case requires three steps to be fully operational:

1) Navigate to http://localhost:8000/ui/files. Drag and drop
   at least two picture files (jpg,gif, bmp etc) to the drag and
   drop space, and repeat with at least two document files (doc, docx,
   xls, pdf).  This feeds the system with trivial files. 

2) Navigate to http://localhost:8000/ui/secretfiles (or just choose
   "secret files" from the green menu bar in the user interface). 
   Drag and drop at least one file of any kind to the drag and drop
   zone. This populates the secret files repository. 

3) Access the administration user interface at 
   http://localhost:8000/admin/ui/secretfileitem/
   If prompted for username and password, this is the account created
   earlier when running manage.py syncdb and prompted for username and
   password. 
   The uploaded secret file or files should be there. Assign at least one
   uploaded file to group 1. This completes the setup.



Back in the application user interface http://localhost:8000/ui/images
click "casetest" in the yellow sidebar to get the fields populated with 
the case parameters. Click "create" and eventually a result sheet should
show completion of three images numbered 1 2 3. If images failed, the reason
of failure is shown. 

Return to the main user interface by the browser back arrow. Choose "solutions", 
click on "casetest" in the yellow side bar, choose an image and click
"print report" to display the image cheat sheet. 



NB: If you want to recreate the case images, the image files must be removed
from /usr/local/forge/Images, as ForGe refuses to overwrite existing images. 
To purge deleted images from the database, go back to admin interface
http://localhost:8000/admin/ui/image, select all deleted images, 
choose "delete selected images" from the pull down menu and click go. A
confirmation is required, showing the cascading deletions to other tables. 
Accept and all traces of deleted images are gone.  














-----------------Generic quick start instructions----------------------



ForGe currently supports NTFS and FAT file systems (file actions not yet
supported in FAT).  Follow installation instructions (run the installation
script and pre_populate database), and follow these steps to start using
ForGe:


1) Navigate to http://localhost:8000/ui/main to get started

2) Choose "Trivial files" and drag & drop trivial files to the repository.
   Good trivial files are smallish and of various types. ForGe detects
   images, audio files, documents, executables and certain other file types.
   However, the categorisation can be changed in admin view

3) Choose "Secret files" and drag & drop hidden file candidates to upload
   them to repository. 



Now a case can be created. This requires the admin interface
http://localhost:8000/admin/ui. Use the username/passwd prompted when 
initialising Django database.

4) Assign categories to hidden files. Choose "hidden file items" and 
   change "group" for each item to non-zero. Groups can be anything numerical
   and a group can have none, one or several files in it. 

5) Create a case. 
   Fsparam1 is the cluster size in sectors (4 = 2048 etc). 
   NOTE FAT file systems: you can choose between FAT12/FAT16/FAT32. However,
   Linux mkfs.msdos generally returns an error if a file system / number of 
   clusters combination is abnormal. Smaller FAT sizes have their limitations
   but it seems to be impossible to create a small FAT32 image. By choosing 
   only "FAT", the cluster size paramter is ignored and a "suitable" FAT
   file system size is chosen automatically. This is strongly recommended. 
   If you want to choose manually, I have been able to create a FAT12 file 
   system with 3M file size, FAT16 with 25M file size and FAT32 with 256M
   file size, with cluster size 4
   You must define either the number of copies or choose a secret strategy 
   from the "sweep" pull down menu.  If you use number of copies, exactly
   that many images will be created. If you use sweep method, one of the 
   secret strategies is chosen as the sweep source. If for example there is 
   a secret strategy that uses method "ADS" to secret file group 5, and secret
   file group 5 has ten secret files, exactly ten images will be created. Each
   file will have a different group 5 file hidden by ADS method. 

6) Create at least one trivial strategy. This puts the "bulk" on file systems,
   for example /holiday containing pictures and /doc containing documents. 
   ForGe chooses randomly the requested amount of trivial files from the 
   repository

7) Create secret strategies. This is the data hiding functionality. Group
   references to secret file groups (4). If a file is alone in its group,
   it will be hidden in each image. If a group is formed of several files, 
   exactly one is chosen randomly. 
   File actions and instructions are optional (actions currently not supported
   in FAT), read the enclosed documentation about actions. 

8) Return to the main user interface. Choose "Images" and create 

9) If curious, display cheat sheets in "Solutions" after image creation. 





Hannu Visti
hannu.visti@gmail.com
 
   
